## 08 Dec 2025

### Sky Team

I've comes to really like [Sky Team](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/373106/sky-team), the 2-player cooperative dice rolling game where you and your partner work together to land an airplane safely. Pandemic, probably the most famous cooperative board game, popularized the style of zombie attack waves in game progression where a sudden and serious situation will descend on the players over and over again, and in order to win they must drop all progress towards long term goals to deal with the immediate crisis. In Sky Team, you have eventual goals, the plane must be completely horizontal, the landing gear must be down, the speed must be low enough, and the flaps must all be engaged. But nothing is by itself immediate or demanding of all attention.

A key aspect of this game is dice rolling, so you leave quite a bit of the strategy to chance. The game provides two mechanisms to mitigate bad rolls, but these are provided sparingly and requires strategic maneuver from the players to best utilize them. New players to the game often try to reach the final goals too early or persistently, for example keeping the plane horizontal in all rounds, and sacrificing a good die to unlock another goal.

A friend and I talked about the seemingly lack of strategy in this game, it leans tactical in that you have to make the best of your dice rolls. But I now believe **the goal of this game is to maximize your surface area of luck**. Your early decisions should be made to maximize your chance of winning without depending on lucky rolls. Putting down a landing gear is great, but that also reduces the range of values that allows your plane to move forward by one notch. IT might be a better decision to leave the landing gear up for now, and focus on clearing the sky, which will open up more options for future rounds.

In this game you are juggling on an average 5-7 conditions that need to be met but each condition prior to the last round has a range of acceptable values, of which are also altered by your earlier decisions. I love how it demands creativity from the players, most of the time there is an optimal move that does not reveal itself.

Also fun is the bridge/hanabi-esque communication. Early on in playing this game, you will learn quickly on using die placement to communicate your hand. For example an early seemingly bad die placement usually signals a bad roll and should be interpreted as a request for help.
